*Work in Progress !*

# Etheruem Chat-App - Documentation

The original paper in German is available [here](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmUM7XV6z44oXp1jGWzNjnqrApnec5HpBo3VTUr81ivKP8).

## Abstract

The world has become a globalised service society in recent years, with payments increasingly being made online by third
parties such as banks and other service providers. Users need to trust that this third party will execute transactions
correctly and that data will be managed correctly so that it is not accessible to the public. Cryptocurrencies offer a
fully decentralised way of executing and storing transactions using blockchain technology, so that there is no need to
trust any third party. With the Ethereum network, it is also possible to program applications on the blockchain. The
following application is designed to provide a decentralised and anonymous way of chatting and sending money to friends
using the [Ethereum](https://ethereum.org/) network and the browser extension [Metamask](https://metamask.io/).

## Table of Contents

- #### [Introduction](#1-Introduction)
- #### [Initial position](#2-Initial-position)
    * #### [Cryptocurrencies](#21-Cryptocurrencies)
        + #### [Development of cryptocurrencies](#211-Development-of-cryptocurrencies)
        + #### [How transactions work in a blockchain](#212-How-transactions-work-in-a-blockchain)
        + #### [Ethereum and Smart Contracts](#213-Ethereum-and-Smart-Contracts)
        + #### [Potential and current purpose of cryptocurrencies](#214-Potential-and-current-purpose-of-cryptocurrencies)
    * #### [Weaknesses of current transaction platforms](#22-Weaknesses-of-current-transaction-platforms)
    * #### [Current state of research](#23-Current-state-of-research)
    * #### [Decentralised transaction mechanisms as a solution approach](#24-Decentralised-transaction-mechanisms-as-a-solution-approach)
- #### [The development of an application for decentralised transactions](#3-The-development-of-an-application-for-decentralised-transactions)
    * #### [Objectives and methodology](#31-Objectives-and-methodology)
        + #### [Functions and purpose of the application](#311-Functions-and-purpose-of-the-application)
        + #### [Realisation](#312-Realisation)
    * #### [Structure and functioning of the application](#32-Structure-and-functioning-of-the-application)
        + #### [Communication with the user - React.js](#321-Communication-with-the-user---React.js)
        + #### [Communication with Ethereum - Metamask](#322-Communication-with-Ethereum---Metamask)
        + #### [Data storage and processing - Firebase](#323-Data-storage-and-processing---Firebase)
    * #### [Conventional and innovative elements of the application](#33-Conventional-and-innovative-elements-of-the-application)
    * #### [Outlook](#34-Outlook)
        + #### [Decentralised data storage with IPFS](#341-Decentralised-data-storage-with-IPFS)
        + #### [ERC-20 token integration](#342-ERC-20-token-integration)
        + #### [Group chats with smart contracts](#343-Group-chats-with-smart-contracts)
- #### [Documentation](#4-Documentation)
    * #### [Representation of the work process](#41-Representation-of-the-work-process)
        + #### [First planning and sketches](#411-First-planning-and-sketches)
        + #### [Development of a first messenger application](#412-Development-of-a-first-messenger-application)
        + #### [Extended planning](#413-Extended-planning)
        + #### [Development of a private messenger application](#414-Development-of-a-private-messenger-application)
        + #### [Extending the application with the Metamask Wallet](#415-Extending-the-application-with-the-Metamask-Wallet)
- #### [The development of an application for decentralised transactions](#5-The-development-of-an-application-for-decentralised-transactions)
    * #### [General conditions of the paper](#51-General-conditions-of-the-paper)
    * #### [Challenges during the development process](#52-Challenges-during-the-development-process)
- #### [Evaluative summary of the result](#6-Evaluative-summary-of-the-result)
- #### [List of Figures](#List-of-figures-1)
- #### [Bibliography](#Bibliography-1)
- #### [Appendix](#Appendix)

---

### 1 Introduction

In recent decades, the world has developed into a digital service society in which almost everything is done online.
Also Payments are mostly done on the Internet. This even happens when paying in retail stores with a credit or girocard.
In many places, it is common to pay with a smartphone or smartwatch.

In order to execute a payment, third party service providers are required. These service providers can be banks or
online payment services such as *PayPal* and *Sofort√ºberweisung*. In the case of payment by smartphone or smartwatch,
large companies like *Google* or *Apple* stand in between as intermediaries. The responsibility for the transaction from
one party to another is therefore transferred to a third party, which receives all the information necessary or
available to execute the transaction. This information contains not only data on the accounts between which the money is
to be transferred, but also of the persons to which the accounts can be assigned, and in some cases, the purpose for
which the transaction is to take place. In this way, the third-party knows who the holder of the card or device is, in
which supermarket he spends how much money and in some cases, what he has bought.

Consumers not only need to trust that service providers will execute transactions correctly, it must also be taken into
account that payment data will be shared, for example with advertisers or for credit rating. A completely anonymous way
of transferring money, as it is the case with analogue money, so cash, cannot be guaranteed with our current financial
system for immaterial transactions.

Decentralised cryptocurrencies offer a solution. Decentralised infrastructures allow transactions without a third party
and offer anonymity.

The basis of the present paper is the development of an application that makes it possible to get in touch with other
people, to network and communicate. The linked people can then use the application to make anonymous payments to each
other based on a cryptocurrency.

### 2 Initial position

#### 2.1 Cryptocurrencies

#### 2.1.1 Development of cryptocurrencies

As explained in [[1]](#Bibliography-1), a cryptocurrency can be described as a digital currency secured by cryptography.
It is intended to be an independent, decentralised and secure alternative to our current payment system.

The first cryptocurrency eCash was developed in 1983 by the American cryptographer David Chaum. As he describes
in [[2]](#Bibliography-1), eCash was supposed to make it possible to execute transactions between two parties digitally.
The new cryptographic technique "blind signatures" was to be used for this. The currency did not succeed; the company
behind it, DigiCash, had to file for bankruptcy in 1998.

The first cryptocurrency which achieved mainstream recognition was Bitcoin in 2009. It was developed during the
financial crisis of 2008 by the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto and, together with blockchain technology, it represents a
fundamental innovation in the development of cryptocurrencies. Based on Bitcoin, many new cryptocurrencies have
developed since 2008. According to [[3]](#Bibliography-1), more than 4,500 cryptocurrencies are now listed on
CoinMarketCap.

Among the many digital currencies is the cryptocurrency Ether. It is the currency on the decentralised platform
Ethereum.

#### 2.1.2 How transactions work in a blockchain

As described in [[1]](#Bibliography-1), a blockchain is to be understood as a decentralised, cryptographically secured "
directory" of all transactions made in the network. This directory is called "ledger". The unique aspect is that the
transactions stored in the blockchain can be viewed publicly by anyone, but they cannot be assigned to a person. This
means that the Bitcoin network, for example, is anonymous.

In order for a user to be able to execute a Bitcoin transaction, he needs a cryptographically generated key pair. This
consists of the "Public Key" and the "Private Key". Both keys consist of a sequence of numbers and letters. The public
key is public and can be seen by anyone, while the private key is private and only known by the owner. From the private
key several associated public keys can be generated, so that one account can have several different addresses.

[<img src="https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmRUkU87phupg8Hou1446GpFpjgfWvKEmJGKw9x6KVYrao" alt="Figure 1: Transactions in the Bitcoin network [4]" width="750"/>](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmRUkU87phupg8Hou1446GpFpjgfWvKEmJGKw9x6KVYrao)

*Figure 1: Transactions in the Bitcoin network [[4]](#Bibliography-1)*

The public key is the address of a Bitcoin account, the so called "wallet ", to which bitcoins can be sent. The private
key and the transaction data can then be used to create a cryptographic signature. The transaction data, the signature
and the public key can then be used to verify whether the signature actually belongs to the private key. In this way, a
transaction can be signed and verified without the private key having to be publicly known, because only the signature
is sent to the network. Each transaction receives a hash value (cf. _Figure 1_). A hash value is a unique value that is
formed using the hash function "SHA-256". A cryptographic hash function always returns the same unique value for the
same input. The input cannot be restored from the value [[5]](#Bibliography-1). A cryptographic hash value can therefore
be understood as a fingerprint of data. Each signature is therefore unique, even though the same transaction is
executed. The signature can be compared with physical signatures. But the signatures on the Bitcoin network are more
unique and secure. [[4]](#Bibliography-1)

[<img src="https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmPMPYZV8yfBhoAq1YN8PKF1GxpiJMuwJ8qNYWsdkF57Ym" alt="Figure 2: The Bitcoin Blockchain [4]" width="750"/>](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmPMPYZV8yfBhoAq1YN8PKF1GxpiJMuwJ8qNYWsdkF57Ym)

*Figure 2: The Bitcoin Blockchain [[4]](#Bibliography-1)*

Once a transaction has been signed with the private key and verified with an associated public key, the transactions are
stored in a block. This block is attached to the blockchain. Thereby, the blockchain represents a simple chained list in
which each block points to the following block in which the successor contains the hash of the predecessor (cf. _Figure
2_).

In order for a block to be verified on the network, a certain number must be found so that the hash of the block starts
with a certain number of zeros. This number is called "nonce" and is also stored in the block. To find the nonce, every
possible combination of numbers is tried until the hash value starts with a certain number of zeros. The one, who finds
the nonce receives the "block reward" and the transaction fees that the user can provide so that his transaction is
preferentially executed. In order to keep the amount of bitcoins limited at 21 million, the block rewards are halved
every 210,000 blocks. This process is called "halving". Satoshi Nakamoto describes finding a nonce as
proof-of-work [[4]](#Bibliography-1), as this process uses physical computing power to check a block. Because new
Bitcoins are created here, this process is called "mining". This is to guarantee security in the network. The number of
zeros is then indicated by the so called "Difficulty", which results from the computing power in the network. Because
the higher the Difficulty, more zeros must be placed at the beginning of the hash value, and with each additional zero,
the work required to find the nonce grows exponentially. To create an interest in finding the nonce of a block, the
person who finds the nonce receives a reward in the form of Bitcoin. The Difficulty is adjusted in the Bitcoin network
in such a way that, with the appropriate computing power, it takes about 10 minutes to find the nonce and verify the
block and the transactions it contains. [[4]](#Bibliography-1)

The individual transactions are stored in a so called "Merkle Tree". A Merkle Tree can be understood like a binary tree,
except that in the Merkle Tree the root is generated from the leaves of the tree (cf. _Figure 3_). For this purpose, the
hash values of the transactions are stored in the leaves. From two leaves the node above it is created. It contains a
hash value that is formed from the two leaves. In the end, only the root of the tree remains. This hash value is also
called "root hash" and is stored in the block.

[<img src="https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmTN2vABMDnUfrRQuJQEqDWziSzAV6NiDTLjjL5NxqutCv" alt="Figure 3: Merkle Tree in Bitcoin [6]" width="750"/>](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmTN2vABMDnUfrRQuJQEqDWziSzAV6NiDTLjjL5NxqutCv)

*Figure 3: Merkle Tree in Bitcoin [[6]](#Bibliography-1)*

Because a hash value is unique and differs significantly from its predecessor with only a small change in the input, the
change in a transaction is reflected directly in the root hash. This change changes the hash value of an entire block
and therefore the hash value of all following blocks. Therefore, the nonce of the following blocks is no longer valid,
and a new nonce would have to be found for all following blocks. It is then impossible to later change transactions in
the blockchain. According to Buterin [[6]](#Bibliography-1), this type of data structure of the blockchain results in
great scalability, as only the hash value is stored and therefore many transactions can be stored securely and with
little effort. [[4]](#Bibliography-1)

In order for a consensus to emerge on a currency, there are the so called "nodes". They store the entire blockchain and
search for new transactions to store in a new block. The node checks whether the transactions are valid and tries to
find the matching nonce for the block. Once the nonce is found, the block is appended to the blockchain and communicated
to all other nodes in the network. These then check whether the nonce is correct, i.e. whether there are enough zeros at
the beginning of the hash value to match the difficulty. The nodes at the same time search for many other blockchains in
the network. Only the blockchain with the most blocks is accepted. An added block is only accepted if it is still
present in the blockchain after a long time, i.e. if it has been accepted by a particularly large number of nodes. This
makes the blockchain particularly secure and decentralised. Because in order to forge a transaction, it would be
necessary to have at least 51 % of the computing power in the network to validate the other blocks with a nonce faster
than the rest of the network it does over a longer period of time - a so-called 51 % attack [[7]](#Bibliography-1).
Running a node is possible for any user without much hardware effort (as long as the user doesn't want to mine) and
allows him to contribute to the security of the network. [[4]](#Bibliography-1)

#### 2.1.3 Ethereum and Smart Contracts

According to [[3]](#Bibliography-1), Ether is currently the second largest cryptocurrency behind Bitcoin and has a
market capitalisation of around 200 billion US dollars. Vitalik Buterin describes Ethereum as an "operating system for
the blockchain" on which new applications for various use cases can always be developed [[8]](#Bibliography-1). These
applications are then executed decentrally on the blockchain and not centrally on a server like conventional
applications.

In the white paper of Ethereum [[6]](#Bibliography-1), Buterin explains how blockchain technology can be used not only
to store transactions and thereby achieve a consensus of a currency, but also to execute programmes on the blockchain.
Like Bitcoin, Ethereum also uses blockchain technology. The way both cryptocurrencies work is the same. Ethereum uses
Ethash as its hash algorithm, and the confirmation time of a block is on average only 13.4s, which is significantly
faster than in the Bitcoin network [[9]](#Bibliography-1) [[10]](#Bibliography-1).

In order to be able to execute programmes on the Ethereum Blockchain, there are so-called "smart contracts". They
represent a kind of contract in the network and are visible to everyone through the blockchain. They are defined by
programmable code and executed exactly as they are programmed. Such a contract is executed, for example, when a certain
amount of Ether has been transferred to the contract. An application can therefore be written in Ethereum with such
contracts. There are two types of accounts in the Ethereum network: User accounts, which are controlled with a private
key like in Bitcoin, and contracts, which are controlled by the predefined code. These contracts can be used to form
autonomous decentralised organisations (DAOs).

In order for such contracts to be stored and the code to be executed on the network, a block on the network does not
simply consist of transactions, but of functions that can define a transaction, but also other operations, which are
then executed by the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). The EVM is located on the blockchain and thus on every node of the
Ethereum network. This means that the code of a smart contract is executed almost at the same time on each node and
therefore on the Ethereum network as soon as a block has been validated [[11]](#Bibliography-1). [[6]](#Bibliography-1)

Accordingly, decentralised and secure applications can be developed on the Ethereum blockchain that not only transfer
money decentrally, but also store data decentrally and securely. These applications are also called decentralised
applications (dApps) because of their decentralised nature. In order to execute smart contracts and store data on
Ethereum, a fee must be paid because a node performs such operations like transactions in the EVM. These fees are
expressed as Giga-Wei (GWEI). Wei is the smallest unit in the network and is equivalent to 10<sup>18</sup>
ether [[12]](#Bibliography-1). Ether or GWEI is a kind of fuel in the network and is therefore also called
gas. [[6]](#Bibliography-1)

In contrast to the Bitcoin network, the Ethereum network is not static and is being further developed by many different
developer teams worldwide from the Ethereum ecosystem. The biggest upgrade since its launch in 2015 is Ethereum 2.0.
This upgrade is intended to make the Ethereum network more scalable, secure and efficient. This is to be achieved by
moving from a proof-of-work consensus to a proof-of-stake consensus. In the process, new blocks are to be validated by
holding Ether. This eliminates the computationally intensive mining process and makes the network more economical and
decentralised, as it is not large data centres that validate the blocks, but those with a particularly high amount of
Ether. With regulated staking pools, associations of many small Ether holders, anyone can participate in staking, even
with only a little amount of Ether. Most importantly, the upgrade should result in lower fees on the network, which not
only makes transactions cheaper, but also makes dApps with smart contracts more appealing and more secure through more
decentralisation. [[13]](#Bibliography-1) [[14]](#Bibliography-1)

#### 2.1.4 Potential and current purpose of cryptocurrencies

Cryptocurrencies now have a global market capitalisation of 1.97 trillion US dollars [[3]](#Bibliography-1). This
includes not only Bitcoin, but also more than 4,500 other cryptocurrencies that have specialised in other use cases (cf.
[chapter 2.1.1](#211-Development-of-cryptocurrencies)). But which potential do cryptocurrencies have in our networked
world and how are they already being used?

Cryptocurrencies use cryptography, decentralised networks and blockchain technology to offer an independent, global,
anonymous and free means of payment. Because this technology is available to anyone with internet access and anyone can
work to improve it, cryptocurrencies are a much more democratic monetary system than the current one. What is special
about cryptocurrencies is not only the technology, but also the global dimension. Cryptocurrencies are particularly
popular in countries like Nigeria, Vietnam and South Africa [[15]](#Bibliography-1). These are developing or emerging
countries. There are rather weak and unstable currencies. Citizens there try to change from their currencies into stable
currencies like the US dollar or the euro. However, these are often highly regulated by local authorities. Therefore,
cryptocurrencies offer people a safe and anonymous way to store value. Since wallets are secured with a so-called "seed
phrase", i.e. a random sequence of 12 to 24 words, owners of cryptocurrencies only have to remember this seed phrase.
With this phrase, people can everywhere recover their wallets and coins and dispose of their money. Since the phrase is
not written down, the possession of money is protected from illegal or authoritarian access.

Cryptocurrencies and especially the blockchain technology on which they are based are also attractive for broad
application in the economy. Blockchain makes not only transactions in the financial sector, but also the exchange of
business and industrial data secure, calculable and fast. The *International Data Spaces Association* (IDSA), which is
supported by industrial companies, has developed a reference architecture to enable the secure exchange and linking of
data within business ecosystems [[16]](#Bibliography-1). Reinhold Achatz, chairman of *IDSA*, considers blockchain to be
an adequate, mature and recognised technology for the operation of data-driven business
ecosystems [[17]](#Bibliography-1).

Decentralised Finance (DeFi) is popular in the cryptocurrency sector. DeFi aims to bring traditional financial services
such as loans or exchanges into the cryptocurrency sector [[18]](#Bibliography-1). The DeFi movement is guided by the
idea that the financial system is not controlled by a central third party, but is decentralised. Most DeFi projects are
being developed on the Ethereum platform and use smart contract technology. For example, smart contracts on the Ethereum
platform can be used to programme their own protocols for tokens in order to create stablecoins that are based on US
dollars or euros. There are also decentralised exchanges such as UniSwap, on which individual tokens can be traded among
themselves [[19]](#Bibliography-1). On decentralised peer-to-peer lending platforms like Compound, tokens can be lent or
borrowed for interest [[20]](#Bibliography-1).

There are other projects in the DeFi field in culture: for example, Non Fungible Tokens (NFT) are used to store digital
artworks such as pictures or music on the Ethereum blockchain and assign them to a specific account. This makes
counterfeiting and unauthorised copying of artworks no longer possible.

How many people use cryptocurrencies is difficult to find out because of the anonymity of cryptocurrencies, even if
every transaction is publicly available. With so-called "OnChain analyses", it is possible to approximate how many users
there are. There are currently between 1.2 and 1.3 million active addresses on the Bitcoin
network [[21]](#Bibliography-1). However, these addresses can be operated not only by humans but also by computers, and
humans can also use several addresses simultaneously. Also not included are people who have cryptocurrencies but do not
actively use them as a means of payment and rarely make transactions. According to GlassnodeStudio, there are
approximately 30 million addresses on the Bitcoin network that own Bitcoins [[22]](#Bibliography-1). Again, it is
possible that one person has access to multiple addresses or there is no longer access to the coins because the private
key or seed phrase has been lost.

#### 2.2 Weaknesses of current transaction platforms

In the traditional financial system, there are two forms of money ownership: cash and online money. Cash is physically
present and protected from counterfeiting by watermarks and other protective mechanisms. Small amounts of money can be
stored well in a purse or piggy bank. For large amounts of money, storage becomes difficult because of security and the
physical quantity. Anyone who wants to have this money available online must be a customer of a bank and trust that the
bank will keep the money safe, carry out transactions correctly and, above all, store user data and user behaviour
securely.

To make payments in shops or online commerce, credit cards are used. Here, it is not only the bank that is responsible
for the correct execution of transactions but also companies such as _Visa_ or _MasterCard_. If money is to be sent from
person to person, the Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) procedure can be used. Here, payments are made directly between
banks within the euro area. Money can be sent easily and flexibly with online payment services such as _PayPal_ or
_Sofort√ºberweisung_. Meanwhile, it is possible to pay with your smartphone or smartwatch and the services of _Google
Pay_ or _Apple Pay_. Via platforms such as _VimPay_, it is also possible to get in touch with other people via chat and
send money to that person.

These forms of transactions have one problem in common: a third central party is absolutely necessary for the execution
of the transaction (cf. [chapter 1](#1-Introduction)), and consumers have to trust that payments will be executed
correctly. The bank or other payment service providers are responsible for ensuring that not too much or too less is
debited and that the correct destination account is found. In addition, it is unclear to the consumer which companies
and banks are involved in the transactions and which data is given to them.

Cryptocurrencies are neutral, unlike the traditional financial system. If one wants to open an account at a bank, a
large amount of personal data is requested and thoroughly checked before it is possible to use the bank account.
Moreover, transactions are expensive. A business customer at _PayPal_, for example, pays 50 euros for a transaction of
2,000 euros [[23]](#Bibliography-1). For private customers, a transaction is free in most cases, but if it goes abroad,
the fees can be up to 3,99 euros [[24]](#Bibliography-1). Transactions can also take a long time. When paying by credit
card, a transaction takes up to 30 days. During this time, the transaction sender and recipient have no assurance as to
whether the transaction will be approved or revoked by the credit institution. With _PayPal_, too, it takes a few days
until money received is available. During this period, the money is capital for the third party.

Another problem with traditional transaction platforms is their centralised structure. Banks and other payment service
providers are vulnerable to hacker attacks due to their centrality. Thus, usually only a few computers have control over
the entire banking system. For example, in the "Carbanak incident" [[25]](#Bibliography-1) about 1.2 billion US dollars
were looted. Here, the money of several thousand customers was stolen, but only one institution was hacked. In the case
of cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin or Ethereum, each owner of the money has the private keys and has kept them safe.
Should a hack occur here, only the individual person is affected and not the entire network. Even in the case of a 51 %
attack (cf. [chapter 2.1.2](#212-How-transactions-work-in-a-blockchain)), the coins in a wallet are safe, as it is not
possible to change any transactions in the blockchain afterwards [[7]](#Bibliography-1).

#### 2.3 Current state of research

According to Satoshi Nakamoto, Bitcoin relies on a new privacy model [[4]](#Bibliography-1). He describes that the
traditional financial system achieves privacy by allowing only a limited number of people to have access to transaction
information, while hiding the identities from the public, i.e. they do not know from whom the money is transferred to
whom. The new model outlined by Nakamoto, on the other hand, relies on making the transactions available to the public.
However, these are separated from individual identities. In this way, it is known that money was transferred, but not
from who to whom. This is achieved by only storing addresses in the blockchain. These addresses are a public key
generated from the private key (cf. [chapter 2.1.2](#212-How-transactions-work-in-a-blockchain)). To achieve more
privacy, several public keys can be generated for the same private key, so that a different public key can be written to
the blockchain for each transaction. Andreas M. Antonopoulos currently estimates anonymity to be lower than it should
be, but it could become more anonymous through new cryptographic methods [[26]](#Bibliography-1). In fact, there are now
ways to use coins more anonymously. For example, the Wasabi wallet with mixed transactions guarantees higher anonymity
than normal transactions in the Bitcoin network [[27]](#Bibliography-1).

Anotonopoulos considers the anonymity of a currency to be very important for the self-determination and free expression
of a society. Cryptocurrencies are suitable for transferring money across national borders without interference and
monitoring from third parties. For example, money would be available for political campaigns that would otherwise be
subject to financial restrictions; the campaigns could be used to express opinions [[26]](#Bibliography-1). Moreover,
only 69 % of the population worldwide have an account at a financial institution [[28]](#Bibliography-1). This means
that 31 % of the world's population do not have an account and may not have access to traditional financial services,
limiting the use of any cash they may have.

Because of the anonymity, cryptocurrencies are assumed to be used for illegal purposes such as drugs and arms dealing.
In the Visual Objects Digital Currency Survey [[29]](#Bibliography-1), 38 % of respondents said they use
cryptocurrencies to buy food and 34 % to buy clothes. 29 % of respondents use cryptocurrencies as an investment or store
of value, and 21 % reported using cryptocurrencies to buy gold. Comparatively less people reported buying weapons (15 %)
or drugs (11 %). Although 15 and 11 % may seem high for questionable purchases, the survey shows that accepted
activities are much more represented in cryptocurrencies.

Cryptocurrencies cause high energy consumption. Bitcoin alone consumes about 144.9 TWh per year [[30]](#Bibliography-1).
That is about as much electricity as Poland (141 TWh) or Egypt (150 TWh) consume [[31]](#Bibliography-1). Therefore, a
digital currency as a single application consumes as much electricity as an entire country. However, a country is not in
relation to a global financial system. For this reason, the electricity consumption can be compared with the traditional
financial system. For example, the global banking system consumes about 650 TWh/year [[32]](#Bibliography-1). That is
about 4.5 times as much power as bitcoin. Ulrich Gallersd√∂rfer sees the problem not in the cryptocurrencies themselves,
but where they get their energy from [[33]](#Bibliography-1). As with the data centres of large internet corporations
and streaming platforms, cryptocurrencies should also be looked at to see how the energy requirements can be made more
sustainable in general.

Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies can be a stable currency for people whose country is unstable and marked by
corruption. However, Antonopoulos reasons that Bitcoin also serves the world's privileged population: cryptocurrencies
offer cheaper and faster ways to carry out transactions than the traditional financial system, and even the euro is
affected by a little inflation. Antonopoulos also cites the neutrality of cryptocurrencies as a major advantage. Thanks
to the decentralised nature of the network, anyone can participate and use its services. This way, someone could take
out a loan in the form of cryptocurrencies without that person being checked for their origin, religion, skin colour and
qualifications. [[34]](#Bibliography-1)

According to Fabian Sch√§r, DeFi products can play a particularly important role for the future. He explains how DeFi
projects replace traditional financial products and make new products available. The technology of smart contracts could
be a big component in the cryptocurrency sector in the next few years. [[35]](#Bibliography-1)

#### 2.4 Decentralised transaction mechanisms as a solution approach

Traditional financial concepts are very inefficient and expensive because of their centralised structure, so
transactions can take up to a whole month, and especially large sums and international transactions incur high fees (cf.
[chapter 2.2](#22-Weaknesses-of-current-transaction-platforms)). In addition, they are only slightly anonymous, are
based on trust and only after a detailed identity check is it possible for the user to use money online. Moreover,
currencies in the traditional sense are controlled by a central authority. So central banks have an influence on the
value of a currency.

In order for an application to send money online, users must enter into contracts or a business agreement with banks,
credit institutions and payment service providers. In doing so, both the user and the application must trust that
transactions are carried out correctly. In addition, transactions can take a very long time, and large amounts of money
can incur high fees for a transaction. Another problem in developing a global transaction application are the different
currency systems. This means that for cross-border transactions - except within the Eurozone - there must always be an
exchange between the currencies involved. This means effort even for small amounts, as currency pairs have to be traded
here on many different exchanges so that money can be sent to each nation.

With their decentralised structure, cryptocurrencies create a global currency that is available everywhere online. They
offer private individuals significantly more security and control over their money through their decentralised
structure. They are also more democratic, as everyone has access to the network and can participate in it. Those who
want to own cryptocurrencies do not have to go through elaborate identity checks and have direct access to many
different financial products.

With smart contracts, the Ethereum platform offers the possibility of programming new applications on the Ethereum
blockchain (cf. [chapter 2.1.3](#213-Ethereum-and-Smart-Contracts)). This makes it possible to programme decentralised
applications without having to develop a blockchain with its own currency. To develop a global transaction application,
Ethereum is particularly well suited. Besides Ethereum, there are alternatives such as Cardano or Algorand, which have
lower transaction fees than Ethereum. However, these are still undeveloped, so it is not yet possible to programme smart
contracts, or the developer community is still small, so it is difficult to find good documentation or threads in
forums.

### 3 The development of an application for decentralised transactions

#### 3.1 Objectives and methodology

#### 3.1.1 Functions and purpose of the application

Cryptocurrencies and blockchain technology are no longer a pioneering topic, but are reaching broad sections of the
population. It has become easier to own and trade cryptocurrencies in recent years with a wide range of different crypto
exchanges and wallet providers. However, apart from financial products and a few social networks like _Cent_ and
_CryptoKitties_, there are only a few use cases for consumers. Therefore, cryptocurrencies are mainly traded as
speculative assets.

The application that is to be developed is to enable the analogue and anonymous cash transfer in combination with a
communication dialogue online.

Until now, it was possible to have a dialogue with messenger services. If one party wanted to send money to the other
party online, a third party such as a bank or _PayPal_ had to be used. If people wanted to remain completely anonymous,
pioneers had the option of using cryptocurrencies by exchanging addresses and then making a transfer with their wallet.
Beyond that, only the physical exchange of cash remained.

With the application, it should now be possible to network like a conventional messenger application, i.e. to
communicate globally with other people. At the same time, the application is supposed to give the user the possibility
to use the cryptocurrency Ether. People should not only be able to communicate, but also to send money to each other
easily, quickly and cheaply. This should work completely anonymously for the user.

#### 3.1.2 Realisation

The application is to be usable by everyone and accessible via the internet. Accordingly, a web application is to be
developed that is accessible via the browser. The user is to access the chat page via a user-friendly login with e-mail
and password. There, they can then communicate with other users in a one-to-one chat. Via "Settings", the user is
supposed to get from the chat page to the settings, where, in addition to settings about user data, he will also find
the "Connect Wallet" button, which he can use to connect his wallet to the application.

In order to make the Messenger application as user-friendly as possible and to make it accessible to users with no
previous knowledge of cryptocurrencies, a wallet is not a requirement for using the application. So data such as
messages and user data are not stored on the Ethereum blockchain. Instead, the Messenger application should first store
data centrally on a server in the conventional way. The application should only then communicate with the Ethereum
network in order to be able to process payments decentrally via the network securely, cheaply, quickly and anonymously.

#### 3.2 Structure and functioning of the application

The application should be accessible as a web application via a browser (cf. [chapter 3.1.2](#312-Realisation)). To
realise this, the JavaScript library React.js and the programming language JavaScript are used. React.js makes it
possible to programme user interfaces and web servers for web applications with JavaScript. In this way, a web
application can be designed dynamically and interactively with React.js-JSX elements. React.js should then communicate
with the database, Ethereum and the user.

[<img src="https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmWGaf4BdbnVpbpUawbHv67Gb79s33LBLRTZtDVRSw5974" alt="Figure 4: Server communication in the application shown in simplified form" width="750"/>](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmWGaf4BdbnVpbpUawbHv67Gb79s33LBLRTZtDVRSw5974)

*Figure 4: Server communication in the application shown in simplified form*

As shown in _Figure 4_, the React.js server communicates with the database, which in this case is represented by _Google
Firebase_. To enable users to store their Ether securely and still use it in a web application, the Metamask extension
is available for the browser. Metamask forms an Ethereum wallet integrated in the browser, with which applications can
communicate via the web3.js API. This means the application can perform transactions on the Ethereum network with
Metamask and the user's permission. dApps like Compound, CryptoKitties and Cent also use Metamask, which means the user
only needs to have one wallet in the browser to use Ether in many different applications.

#### 3.2.1 Communication with the user - React.js

The web application consists of three web pages. The login or registration, the homepage and the settings. On the login
page, the user can log in with his login data and will be redirected to the homepage. On the registration page, the user
can register with his or her username, e-mail and password and is then also redirected to the homepage. On the homepage,
the user can access the individual chats with the particular persons via the list of other users. If the user clicks on
another user, the chat history with the respective user appears; in addition, there is the option to send a message to
the other user via a text field and the "Send" button.

If both users have linked the Metamask Wallet to the application, a text field and a button appear with which the user
can send Ether to the other user. If the user clicks on the settings in the navigation bar, he or she is taken to the
settings. There, the user will find the "Wallet Settings" with the button "Connect Wallet" and the tab "Personal
Information", where information such as username, email and password can be changed.

The individual pages are programmed in React.js as components. The components can then contain other components that
display individual elements on the website. The content to be displayed is programmed in these components using the JSX
syntax.

[<img src="https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmfYGU6xGqLEY4KpXE5xSTS9pogBp1Y74jPWzUA4LZQTpX" alt="Figure 5: React Component Message" width="750"/>](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmfYGU6xGqLEY4KpXE5xSTS9pogBp1Y74jPWzUA4LZQTpX)

*Figure 5: React Component Message*

JSX is passed in the return function of the component and represents HTML code with JavaScript elements. The JavaScript
elements allow the actually static HTML syntax to be programmed here and to adapt dynamically. For example, the
ClassName attribute in the div in line 27 contains different values depending on whether the condition is true or not.

In order to process user input directly in React.js, JSX offers the option of storing the input in a specific field
directly in a state of the component. States of components can be equated with attributes from object-oriented
programming.

#### 3.2.2 Communication with Ethereum - Metamask

Metamask is a wallet that is located directly in the browser (
cf. [chapter 3.2](#32-Structure-and-functioning-of-the-application)). It can be installed as a browser extension in most
browsers. In this wallet, the user can create a new wallet with a new public key and private key to which he can send
Ether. It is also possible to import an existing wallet with the private key.

The web3.js API can be used to communicate with the Metamask Wallet, if the user has installed the extension in the
browser. In order for the user to also access the wallet, he or she must give the permission for the application to
access the wallet. If the user agrees, the respective domain of the application is stored in the wallet. The user can
remove this at any time so that the application is no longer allowed to communicate with the wallet.

With various API requests, the application can retrieve data from the wallet and send orders to the wallet. For example,
the application can request the addresses, the current balance and, if applicable, the various tokens.

[<img src="https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmUfpBBjmsdhkpn6532sQJSBQ1DGVzvCKGiLtwM27nHXct" alt="Figure 6: Function sendETH from HomePage" width="750"/>](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmUfpBBjmsdhkpn6532sQJSBQ1DGVzvCKGiLtwM27nHXct)

*Figure 6: Function sendETH from HomePage*

With these requests, the application can request data from the wallet, but also order transactions. This request is
called up with "eth_sendTransaction", as shown in _Figure 6_. As a parameter, it must be specified from which address
which amount is to be transferred to which address. The sender address is the address that is currently linked to the
wallet and the recipient address is the address that the other user last linked to the application. All values must be
passed as hexadecimal numbers. The addresses are stored as hexadecimal strings and can be transferred without any
problems. The user specifies the amount to be transferred in Ether and as a decimal number. Therefore, the number must
first be converted into Wei, the smallest unit in the network, and then into the corresponding hexadecimal number.
Example: 1 ETH = 10<sup>18</sup> Wei; 10<sup>18</sup> Wei = 0xde0b6b3a7640000 Wei (Hexadecimal numbers are marked in the
Ethereum network starting with 0x).

#### 3.2.3 Data storage and processing - Firebase

Chat and user data must be stored centrally so that no Ethereum wallet is required to use the application (
cf. [chapter 3.1.2](#312-Realisation)). The data is stored on _Google Firebase_, as it offers the possibility to manage
users and to retrieve and edit data in real time. _Firebase_ offers to store data in JSON format. According
to [[36]](#Bibliography-1), the JSON format is based on the JavaScript programming language and can therefore be used
well in this language. Firebase was chosen because of its user-friendliness; an alternative is _MongoDB_.

In order for React.js to communicate with _Firebase_ to retrieve and process data, the JavaScript library Redux.js is
used. Redux.js is used to retrieve data from the database and then make it available to the React Components in a
bundled and organised way. This means that a data query does not have to be programmed into each React Component
individually. This makes it easier to use data in an application. [[37]](#Bibliography-1)

In order for a user to register and log in, his or her username, email and password in encrypted form are stored (cf.
_Figure 7_). In addition, it is stored whether the user is currently online so that this can be displayed to other
users, when the user created an account and a unique ID so that this object can be referred to in other objects in the
database. If the user has connected a Metamask Wallet to the application, the address is also stored so that other users
can make transactions to this address.

[<img src="https://ipfs.io/ipfs/Qmc61MehtwoCyPxu33ZrR4ZsPH4pmzZJ9c5HQ1ufuRKc3q" alt="Figure 7: User data in JSON-Format" width="750"/>](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/Qmc61MehtwoCyPxu33ZrR4ZsPH4pmzZJ9c5HQ1ufuRKc3q)

*Figure 7: User data in JSON-Format*

In order for transactions and messages to be displayed in the chat, they are also stored (cf. _Figure 8_). Again, a
timestamp indicating when the message or transaction was sent and a unique ID are stored. In order to be able to track
who sent the message and who should receive it, the ID of the respective user is stored in the JSON object either as
sender or recipient. To determine whether it is a message or a transaction, this is also stored as a string. If it is a
message, the message is saved under _message_. If it is a transaction, another object with the transaction data is saved
under _transaction_. This object contains the hash value of the transaction, the address of the sender and the
recipient, the amount of Ether transferred in Ether and the transaction fee in Ether.

[<img src="https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmabwyBhfp7fPjtTCeK9NMuHTfMiD3sEt5g1NnpjXSBMbz" alt="Figure 8: Messages and transactions in JSON-Format" width="750"/>](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmabwyBhfp7fPjtTCeK9NMuHTfMiD3sEt5g1NnpjXSBMbz)

*Figure 8: Messages and transactions in JSON-Format*

For simplicity, data such as the messages and transactions are not encrypted here. However, this could be supplemented
with end-to-end encryption. According to [[38]](#Bibliography-1), with end-to-end encryption it is possible that only
the sender and receiver can read the messages. On the server, however, the data is encrypted and not readable by the
application.

#### 3.3 Conventional and innovative elements of the application

The application consists of various elements to design a messenger application that supports decentralised transactions.
It draws on both conventional and innovative elements.

The application has two basic functions: the messenger function and the function to execute decentralised transactions
on the Ethereum network to other users. The concept of a messenger application is conventional. The first messenger
service, _ICQ_, appeared in 1996. Since then, many other messenger services have developed, such as _WhatsApp_,
_Telegram_, _Signal_ or _Threema_. In the present application, data is stored centrally on a server, as in conventional
messenger services. Accordingly, user data and chat messages are affected by the advantages and disadvantages of a
central server structure. A third party must be trusted to store the data and there is a higher vulnerability to hacker
attacks. On the other hand, data can be delivered much faster.

The application, on the other hand, combines this conventional concept of a central messenger service with the
innovative element of the decentralised transaction mechanism with Ethereum. Established messenger services such as
_Signal_ also integrate cryptocurrencies [[39]](#Bibliography-1). However, only the cryptocurrency MobileCoin is used
there. The innovative thing about using Ethereum and Metamask is that not only can a cryptocurrency be used here, it is
also possible to use tokens. In addition, Metamask is already integrated into many other dApps and is therefore already
used by those who use dApps and Ethereum.

#### 3.4 Outlook

With its transaction function, the present application offers more than a conventional messenger application. With a
view to decentralised transactions, it is still one-sided, but can be extended by additional functions.

Cryptocurrencies are in a constant state of change and are supplemented by many new projects. Results of these projects
can be integrated into the application, for example to make it more secure and user-friendly.

#### 3.4.1 Decentralised data storage with IPFS

The decentralised data storage in the Ethereum network poses two challenges for the application: First, a user must have
an Ethereum wallet in order for the data to be associated with them, and second, data storage on the EVM is treated like
transactions [[6]](#Bibliography-1). Therefore, a transaction fee would have to be paid each time a user or a message is
stored. The Inter Planentary File System (IPFS) offers a possible solution.

IPFS was developed in 2015 by Juan Benet and is a decentralised peer-to-peer file system. Here, files are stored
decentrally on a network of nodes. The files are stored in an IPFS object. This object has a hash value that can be used
to identify the object in the network. The IPFS object contains the data of the file and links in which hash values of
other IPFS objects can be stored in order to link to other files in the network. If a file is to be retrieved in the
network, the hash value must be specified. The nodes then search the network for this hash value and return the file.
Because a file is stored on the network with the hash, it is not possible to change the file without changing the hash.

[<img src="https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmYJ3hbetQBhzdRBcG5KsSCjHWa8YyHJAvz8wvXjJDWrhY" alt="Figure 9: Visualisation of version control in IPFS according to [40]" width="750"/>](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmYJ3hbetQBhzdRBcG5KsSCjHWa8YyHJAvz8wvXjJDWrhY)

*Figure 9: Visualisation of version control in IPFS according to [[40]](#Bibliography-1).*

If you want to change a file, you use a version history (cf. _Figure 9_). This consists of several IPFS objects called
commits, which link to the IPFS object with the current file and to the previous commit. [[40]](#Bibliography-1)

IPFS offers the possibility to store files in a tamper-proof way and to be able to track changes. However, IPFS has
disadvantages. There is a risk that if a file is stored on only a few nodes, they will lose the file or go offline. This
means that the file can no longer be found in the network and the user can no longer retrieve the file. According
to [[41]](#Bibliography-1), the Filecoin project is trying to solve this with a proof-of-replication procedure by
rewarding nodes for providing storage space and requiring a certain number of nodes to store a file. This way,
individual users would not have to pay for storage, but the application would. Since the application does not charge
users, it would have to finance the storage space with advertising or data trading. A suitable solution is being
searched for.

#### 3.4.2 ERC-20 token integration

The Ethereum Blockchain makes it possible to store tokens on the blockchain using smart contracts and the ERC-20
standard. These tokens can serve different purposes. For example, they can represent a points system on an online
platform or represent entirely separate currencies. Among other things, ERC-20 tokens can also be used to represent
existing conventional currencies such as US dollars or euros. They can also represent gold or other cryptocurrencies
such as Bitcoin on the Ethereum blockchain. [[42]](#Bibliography-1)

These tokens can be stored in an Ethereum wallet in the same way as Ether, including in the Metamask wallet. The
application could support different tokens. This would allow users to send not only Ether, but also tokens that
represent other currencies. So, with Tether-USD (USDT) or USD Coin (USDC), they would be able to send US dollars to
other people via the application. With the Wrapped-BTC (WBTC) or Tether-Gold (XAUT) token, users could also send bitcoin
or gold via the Ethereum blockchain.

As Ether is exposed to large price fluctuations, these tokens could allow users to send stable currencies and not take a
high risk of loss when they want to send coins to other people.

#### 3.4.3 Group chats with smart contracts

So far, it is possible to communicate with individual users in the present application. Group chats, as offered by other
messenger services, can still be implemented. There, users could simply send money to members of a group. In addition,
with smart contracts, it would be possible for a group to save together towards a specific goal.

Group members would send Ether or other tokens to a smart contract after previously determining how much money to save
and to which address the collected money should be sent when the savings target is reached. The smart contract would
check how much money is in the contract every time money is transferred to it. As soon as this amount equals or exceeds
the target amount, the coins are paid out to the specified address. If the contract is to be dissolved before the target
is reached, this can be attached to a transaction as a message and thereby communicated to the contract. If the contract
receives this message, it sends the received coins back to the corresponding addresses.

This would enable users not only to chat in a group, but also to collect money together. This money can be used for
various purposes, whereby the savings purpose remains anonymous to third parties. By doing this via a smart contract,
there is no need to trust a third party that the money will be paid out correctly. The smart contract would always be
executed by EVM as programmed.

### 4 Documentation

#### 4.1 Representation of the work process

#### 4.1.1 First planning and sketches

At the beginning of the development, there were considerations about what the application should look like and what it
has to do. A rough sketch of the application was made, which clarifies the structure and functionality of the
application.

[<img src="https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmUSqD2gEjtcND4dRsCjPZ7se1nZjpAzaL7Lf1d6YHsuQ7" alt="Figure 10: First sketch of the application" width="750"/>](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmUSqD2gEjtcND4dRsCjPZ7se1nZjpAzaL7Lf1d6YHsuQ7)

*Figure 10: First sketch of the application*

_Figure 10_ shows the sketch of the messenger application in which it should be possible to communicate with other users
and, as can be seen in the chat history, to send Ether. In this sketch, it is still assumed that it is possible to
provide the user with their own wallet in the application. In this way, the user would always have to send his Ether to
the wallet in the application if he wants to dispose of his money there. However, this is inconvenient for the user
because fees are charged for each transaction and they cannot use their Ether in other applications. In addition, the
application would have to manage the private keys and keep them safe. This could be a security risk for the application,
as someone could dispose of the user's coins with the captured keys (
cf. [chapter 2.1.1](#211-Development-of-cryptocurrencies)).

Since the browser wallet Metamask is considered particularly secure and established and is used by many other dApps, it
was decided to install it in the browser as an extension (
cf. [chapter 3.2.2](#322-Communication-with-Ethereum---Metamask)). Private keys are stored in the user's own browser
instead of with a third party. Users can not only send new coins to the wallet, but also import existing wallets with
the private key.

#### 4.1.2 Development of a first messenger application

Based on the planning and sketch made beforehand, a web application was then programmed that fulfils the purpose of a
messenger ([See appendix](#Appendix) for further illustrations).

A web server is needed so that a web application can react dynamically to user input. Since previous experience with
JavaScript and Node.js is available and React.js is a widely used JavaScript library, Node.js in conjunction with
React.js was chosen as the web server.

Programming of a simple chat application was started in order to learn how to use a frontend library like React.js and
to test the data storage in the application. To realise the chat, two servers were programmed: a pure Node.js server and
a React.js server. The Node.js server communicated only with the database in order to retrieve data in an organised way
and to pass it bundled to the React.js server. The data was exchanged between the servers using Socket.IO. This then
processed the data and passed it on as a web page to the browser and therefore to the user.

In this version of the application, it was only possible to communicate with all users in a single chat room, as only
the content and sender of a message were stored. So the application could assign messages to a user, but not to who it
was intended for.

#### 4.1.3 Extended planning

The first version of the application was a good way to get used to working with a library like React.js and to learn how
to build a messenger application. However, the application programmed so far did not fulfil the goal of a one-to-one
chat with other users, and payments via the Ethereum network were also not yet possible. In addition, the construction
of the application was complex and inefficient due to the two servers.

Therefore, a new database system was modelled that not only stores who a message comes from, but also to whom it should
be sent. In addition, this model should also store the Ethereum addresses of the users so that these could be used for
transactions. This model corresponds to the one currently used (
cf. [chapter 3.2.3](#323-Data-storage-and-processing---Firebase)).

In order to make the server structure more simple and efficient, two servers should no longer be used, which separately
represent the backend and frontend of the application, but only one React.js server, which can manage both user input
and data from the database. Redux.js should be used so that the React.js server can communicate easily and in a
structured way with the database. With the library, it should be possible to query data from the database within
React.js and pass it on to the individual React.js components in an organised manner (
cf. [chapter 3.2.3](#323-Data-storage-and-processing---Firebase)).

#### 4.1.4 Development of a private messenger application

According to the new plan, a second version of the application was developed. Since the server structure of the new
application was to differ significantly from the first version, a new React.js server was programmed. With this, a
[repository](https://github.com/Jufg/Chat-App-ETH) was also created on GitHub, where the source code is saved and
documented (cf. [chapter A.1.1](#Appendix)).

_Google Firebase_ was used as the database for the new application, as it is particularly easy to manage users and data
here (cf. [chapter 3.2.3](#323-Data-storage-and-processing---Firebase)). Since it was now possible with the new database
system to assign messages to the sender and recipient, a list of users could be programmed in this version of the
application. This was done in the same way as in _Figure 10_ and allows the user to open or start a chat with another
user. It was now possible not only to display the messages of the two users in a chat, but in the chat they could also
be displayed according to recipient and sender.

Since the user should also be able to connect settings of his login data and later also a wallet to the application, the
Settings page was programmed. Here, the user can change his or her user data such as username, email and password.

#### 4.1.5 Extending the application with the Metamask Wallet

The application allows users to communicate with each other. With the Metamask Wallet and the Web3.js API, it should now
be possible for users to send money to each other via decentralised transactions.

In order for users to be able to use the Metamask Wallet in the application, they must first connect it to the
application and allow the application access to the wallet. The user should be able to define this in the settings. For
this purpose, a button was programmed on the settings page with which the application sends a request to the Metamask
extension - provided the user has installed this extension in the browser - asking for access to the wallet. If the user
agrees, the application can access the addresses of the wallet and send requests for transactions to the wallet. The
current address is stored in the database.

Since a user can connect their wallet to the application and the Ethereum address is stored in the database, the
application has enough information to forward a transaction to the Metamask wallet. To make this possible, another text
field was added in which the user can write the amount of Ether to be sent.

[<img src="https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmS6HohRfTEMqXNQAcxEcQTD3XPjmJyTgFSQLwYVp8aKdw" alt="Figure 11: Metamask Transaction Confirmation" width="750"/>](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmS6HohRfTEMqXNQAcxEcQTD3XPjmJyTgFSQLwYVp8aKdw)

*Figure 11: Metamask Transaction Confirmation*

If the user clicks on the button "ETH", a window of the Metamask Extension opens in which all details of the transaction
are displayed (cf. _Figure 11_). The user can adjust the transaction fees himself. The transaction is confirmed with the
Confirm button and Metamask signs it with the private key. The transaction can still be cancelled at this point by
clicking the Decline button. The server saves the transaction as a message in the database and displays it in the chat
history (cf. [chapter 3.2.3](#323-Data-storage-and-processing---Firebase)).

### 5 Critical reflection

#### 5.1 General conditions of the paper

#### 5.2 Challenges during the development process

### 6 Evaluative summary of the result

### List of figures

### Bibliography

[1] *CoinMarketCap*, "What Is a Cryptocurrency?", 2021
<br>https://coinmarketcap.com/alexandria/glossary/cryptocurrency
<br>(last accessed 23.03.2021)

[2] *Chaum, David*, "Blind signatures for untraceable payments", Boston SpringerVerlag 1983, pp. 199-203
<br>https://www.chaum.com/publications/Chaum-blind-signatures.PDF
<br>(last accessed 23.03.2021)

[3] *CoinMarketCap*, "Today's Cryptocurrency Prices by Market Cap", 2021
<br>https://coinmarketcap.com/
<br>(last accessed 29.03.2021)

[4] *Nakamoto, Satoshi*, "Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System", 2008
<br>https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
<br>(last accessed 29.03.2021)

[5] *CoinMarketCap*, "What Is a Cryptographic Hash Function?", 2021
<br>https://coinmarketcap.com/alexandria/glossary/cryptographic-hash-function
<br>(last accessed 31.03.2021)

[6] *Buterin, Vitalik*, "A Next-Generation Smart Contract and Decentralized Application Platform", 2013
<br>https://ethereum.org/de/whitepaper/
<br>(last accessed 29.03.2021)

[7] *Beigel, Ofir*, "51% Attack Explained ‚Äì a Beginner‚Äôs Guide", 99Bitcoins 2020
<br>https://99bitcoins.com/51-percent-attack/
<br>(last accessed 30.03.2021)

[8] *Buterin, Vitalik*, "Understanding the Ethereum Blockchain Protocol", London 2015, min. 2:00-4:00
<br>https://archive.devcon.org/devcon-1/details/
<br>(last accessed 30.03.2021)

[9] *BitInfoCharts*, "Ethereum (ETH) statistiken und informationen", 2021
<br>https://bitinfocharts.com/de/ethereum/
<br>(last accessed 30.03.2021)

[10] *Ward, Chris*, "Ethash", Ethereum Wiki 2020
<br>https://eth.wiki/en/concepts/ethash/ethash
<br>(last accessed 30.03.2021)

[11] *Beregsz√°szi, Alex*, "Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)", Ethereum.org 2021
<br>https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/evm/
<br>(last accessed 30.03.2021)

[12] *Wood, Gavin*, "Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction ledger", Petersburg Version 41c1837 2021
<br>https://github.com/ethereum/yellowpaper
<br>(last accessed 03.04.2021)

[13] *Ethereum.org*, "A digital future on a global scale", 2021
<br>https://ethereum.org/en/eth2/vision/
<br>(last accessed 02.04.2021)

[14] *Dog, Decentralized*, "A Dive Into Ethereum 2.0", CoinMarketCap 2020
<br>https://coinmarketcap.com/alexandria/article/a-dive-into-ethereum-2-0
<br>(last accessed 02.04.2021)

[15] *Statista Global Consumer Survey*, "Wie verbreitet ist Crypto-W√§hrung", 2020
<br>https://de.statista.com/infografik/22561/anteil-der-krypto-nutzer-inausgewaehlten-laendern/
<br>(last accessed 03.04.2021)

[16] *IDSA*, "International Data Spaces (IDS)", International Data Spaces Association, Dortmund 2019
<br>https://internationaldataspaces.org/wp-content/uploads/IDSA-Brochure-IDSStandard-for-Data-Sovereignty-Indispensible-Element-for-Data-Ecosystems.pdf
<br>(last accessed 15.04.2021)

[17] *Achatz, Reinhold*, "Blockchain Technology in IDS", International Data Spaces Association, Dortmund 2019
<br>https://internationaldataspaces.org/wp-content/uploads/dlm_uploads/IDSA-Position-Paper-Blockchain-Technology-in-IDS.pdf
<br>(last accessed 15.04.2021)

[18] *CoinMarketCap*, "What Is Decentralized Finance (DeFi)?", 2021
<br>https://coinmarketcap.com/alexandria/glossary/defi
<br>(last accessed 03.04.2021)

[19] *Uniswap*, "Swap", Uniswap 2021
<br>https://app.uniswap.org/#/swap
<br>(last accessed 17.04.2021)

[20] *Compound*, "Dashboard", Compound Labs 2021
<br>https://app.compound.finance/
<br>(last accessed 17.04.2021)

[21] *GlassnodeStudio*, "Bitcoin: Number of Active Addresses", Glassnode 2021
<br>https://studio.glassnode.com/metrics?a=BTC&category=Addresses&m=addresses.ActiveCount
<br>(last accessed 04.04.2021)

[22] *GlassnodeStudio*, "Bitcoin: Number of Addresses with a Non-Zero Balance", Glassnode 2021
<br>https://studio.glassnode.com/metrics?a=BTC&category=Addresses&m=addresses.NonZeroCount
<br>(last accessed 04.04.2021)

[23] *PayPal Inc.*, "Vorzugskonditionen f√ºr gewerbliche Verk√§ufer", 2021
<br>https://www.paypal.com/de/webapps/mpp/merchant-fees
<br>(last accessed 06.04.2021)

[24] *PayPal Inc.*, "PayPal-Geb√ºhren f√ºr Privatkunden", 2021
<br>https://www.paypal.com/de/webapps/mpp/paypal-fees
<br>(last accessed 06.04.2021)

[25] *Devereux, Charlie; Wild, Franz; Robinson, Edward:* "The Biggest Digital Heist in History Isn‚Äôt Over Yet",
Bloomberg L.P. 2018
<br>https://www.bloomberg.com/news/features/2018-06-25/the-biggest-digitalheist-in-history-isn-t-over-yet
<br>(last accessed 05.04.2021)

[26] *Antonopoulos, Andreas M.*, "Andreas M. Antonopoulos √ºber Bitcoin, Datenschutz, Menschenrechte und die Zukunft von
Bitcoin", Anita Posch 2018
<br>https://bitcoinundco.com/de/andreas-antonopoulos-bitcoin-zukunft-podcast/
<br>(last accessed 06.04.2021)

[27] *Kuhlmann, Max*, "Bitcoin anonym aufbewahren: Wasabi-Wallet verspricht mehr Privacy", BTC ECHO 2018
<br>https://www.btc-echo.de/bitcoin-anonym-aufbewahren-wasabi-walletverspricht-mehr-privacy/
<br>(last accessed 06.04.2021)

[28] *Demirg√º√ß-Kunt, Asli et al.*, "The Global Findex Database", World Bank Group 2017
<br>https://openknowledge.worldbank.org/bitstream/handle/10986/29510/211259ov.pdf
<br>(last accessed 18.04.2021)

[29] *Clark, Emily*, "Cryptocurrency Statistics: What Are The Myths & Realities?",Visual Objects 2020
<br>https://visualobjects.com/web-development/understanding-cryptocurrencymyths-realities
<br>(last accessed 06.04.2021)

[30] *Cambridge Centre for Alternative Finance*, "Cambridge Bitcoin Electricity Consumption Index", 2021
<br>https://cbeci.org/
<br>(last accessed 06.04.2021)

[31] *LaenderDaten*, "Stromverbrauch", Lexas 2015
<br>https://www.laenderdaten.de/energiewirtschaft/elektrische_energie/stromverbrauch.aspx
<br>(last accessed 06.04.2021)

[32] *Bain, Tyler*, "Introducing CBEI: A new way to measure Bitcoin Network electrical consumption", Bitcoin Magazine
2020
<br>https://bitcoinmagazine.com/business/introducing-cbei-a-new-way-tomeasure-bitcoin-network-electrical-consumption
<br>(last accessed 06.04.2021)

[33] *Gallersd√∂rfer, Ulrich*, "Experten-Interview: ‚ÄûDas Bitcoin-Netzwerk emittiert so viel CO2 wie Las Vegas oder ganze
Staaten‚Äú", Kryptoszene 2020
<br>https://kryptoszene.de/news/experten-interview-das-bitcoin-netzwerk-emittiertso-viel-co2-wie-las-vegas-oder-ganze-staaten/
<br>(last accessed 06.04.2021)

[34] *Antonopoulos, Andreas M.*, "Bitcoin: Revolution des Geldsystems oder digitales Gold?", Finanzfluss 2021, min. 7:
00‚Äì19:00
<br>https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QiEz1Aw8BEk
<br>(last accessed 06.04.2021)

[35] *Sch√§r, Fabian*, "Krypto-Experte Sch√§r: ¬´DeFi ist h√∂chst interessant ‚Äì aber f√ºr Spekulanten extrem riskant¬ª",
Watson 2021
<br>https://www.watson.ch/wirtschaft/wissen/813917630-krypto-experte-schaerdefi-ist-hoechst-interessant-aber-extrem-riskant
<br>(last accessed 06.04.2021)

[36] *Json.org*, "Introducing Json"
<br>https://www.json.org/json-en.html
<br>(last accessed 09.04.2021)

[37] *Abramov, Dan*, "Redux Essentials, Part 1: Redux Overview and Concepts"
<br>https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts
<br>(last accessed 09.04.2021)

[38] *Kaspersky Team*, "Was eine Ende-zu-Ende-Verschl√ºsselung ist und warum Sie eine ben√∂tigen", AO Kaspersky Lab 2020
<br>https://www.kaspersky.de/blog/what-is-end-to-end-encryption/25190/
<br>(last accessed 09.04.2021)

[39] *Beuth, Patrick*, "Signal testet Bezahlfunktion mit Kryptow√§hrung", Der Spiegel Hamburg 2021
<br>https://www.spiegel.de/netzwelt/apps/messenger-app-signal-testetbezahlfunktion-mit-kryptowaehrung-a-f03e2d66-be58-44fd-b0fd-acfe697078b2
<br>(last accessed 10.04.2021)

[40] *Benet, Juan*, "IPFS - Content Addressed, Versioned, P2P File System", 2014
<br>https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs/blob/master/papers/ipfs-cap2pfs/ipfs-p2p-filesystem.pdf
<br>(last accessed 09.04.2021)

[41] *Benet, Juan; Daylrymple, David; Greco, Nicola*: "Proof of Replication", 2017
<br>https://research.filecoin.io/papers
<br>(last accessed 10.04.2021)

[42] *Slyghtlyfloating*: "ERC-20 Token Standard", 2017
<br>https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/
<br>(last accessed 10.04.2021)

### Appendix